NVIDIA DLSS 3.5 Is Available Now In Cyberpunk 2077 Ray Tracing: Overdrive Mode & Chaos Vantage
By Andrew Burnes on September 21, 2023 | Featured StoriesCyberpunk 2077Frame GenerationGeForce RTX GPUsNVIDIA DLSSNVIDIA RTXRay ReconstructionRay Tracing
NVIDIA DLSS 3.5 debuts in Cyberpunk 2077 and Chaos Vantage.

NVIDIA DLSS 3.5 makes your games even more beautiful, immersive and realistic with the introduction of Ray Reconstruction, a new AI-powered technique that further enhances the quality of ray tracing. And in apps, ray-traced previews and viewports are greatly improved, enabling creators to better visualize the final result before time-consuming renders.

DLSS 3.5 is available for all GeForce RTX and NVIDIA RTX users; for the complete breakdown on this new technology, head to our NVIDIA DLSS 3.5 announcement article.

In other DLSS news, Lies of P, Party Animals, Warhaven and Witchfire are all launching this week with day-one DLSS support, and gamers can check out an open beta for The First Descendant, an upcoming DLSS 3-accelerated game.

In each game, GeForce RTX users will receive the definitive experience - read on for all the details.

NVIDIA DLSS 3.5 Launches Today
NVIDIA is advancing rendering technology once more with the introduction of NVIDIA DLSS 3.5, featuring Ray Reconstruction, which is a new AI model that enhances ray-traced images for intensive ray-traced games and apps.

Ray Reconstruction replaces hand-tuned denoisers, which resolve sampled rays in a scene, with an NVIDIA supercomputer-trained AI network that generates higher-quality pixels in between sampled rays.

Hand-tuned denoisers accumulate pixels from multiple frames to increase detail, in effect stealing rays from the past, but at the risk of introducing ghosting, removing dynamic effects, and reducing the quality of others. They also interpolate neighboring pixels, and blend this information together, at the risk of blending away too much detailed information, or not blending enough, and creating non-uniform lighting effects.

Upscaling is the last stage of the ray-traced lighting pipeline, and is key to experiencing the most detailed and demanding games at fast frame rates. But with denoising removing or decreasing the quality of effects, the limitations of hand-tuned denoisers are amplified, removing fine detail (referred to as high-frequency information) that upscalers use to output a crisp, clean image.

Trained with 5X more data than DLSS 3, DLSS 3.5 recognizes different ray-traced effects to make smarter decisions about using temporal and spatial data, and to retain high frequency information for superior-quality upscaling.

Using training derived from the analysis of offline-rendered images, which require far more computational power than can be delivered during a real-time game, Ray Reconstruction recognizes lighting patterns from training data, such as that of global illumination or ambient occlusion, and recreates it in-game as you play. The results are superior to using hand-tuned denoisers.


 
In Portal with RTX, with DLSS OFF, the denoiser struggles with spatial interpolation, where it’s not blending enough pixels, creating a blotchy effect. Additionally, it’s not accumulating enough good pixels from previous frames, and the result is a boiling effect in the light. With DLSS 3.5, it recognizes certain patterns associated with reflections and keeps the image stable, accumulating accurate pixels while blending neighboring pixels to generate high quality reflections.


 
In the following scene from Cyberpunk 2077, the inaccurate headlight illumination which surrounds the car is a result of the hand-tuned denoiser pulling in inaccurate lighting effects from previous frames. DLSS 3.5 accurately generates lighting, so you can make out the beam of the headlights, and see light reflect on the curb in front of the car.

The streets of Cyberpunk 2077’s Night City are filled with reflections from rotating billboards and neon lights. By activating DLSS 3.5, their quality and clarity is vastly improved city wide:

With DLSS 3.5, we’re delivering a faster, better experience as a free upgrade, building upon the much-loved enhancements already available in your favorite games and most used apps. 

Cyberpunk 2077 Upgrades To DLSS 3.5
Cyberpunk 2077’s 2.0 update is available now with tons of enhancements, including DLSS 3.5. In Cyberpunk 2077’s Ray Tracing: Overdrive Mode, DLSS 3.5’s new Ray Reconstruction technique improves the quality and clarity of reflections, global illumination is even more accurate, and lighting is more dynamically responsive, for an even better, more immersive, more realistic experience.


 
GeForce RTX 40 Series users can benefit from all the performance and image quality enhancements that DLSS 3.5 has to offer - including performance-multiplying Frame Generation for the fastest frame rates - in the demanding Ray Tracing: Overdrive Mode.

And on September 26th, Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty launches with full ray tracing, DLSS 3.5, and Ray Reconstruction. Phantom Liberty is a new spy-thriller adventure for Cyberpunk 2077. When the orbital shuttle of the President of the New United States of America is shot down over the deadliest district of Night City, there’s only one person who can save her — you. Become V, a cyberpunk for hire, and dive deep into a tangled web of espionage and political intrigue, unraveling a story that connects the highest echelons of power with the brutal world of black-market mercenaries.


 
"Thanks to DLSS 3.5’s smart technology, fuelled by AI rendering power, you can experience Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty’s newest location Dogtown at its very best — with sharper images, more accurate lighting, and the highest frame rates possible." - Jakub Knapik, VP of Art, Global Art Director, CD PROJEKT RED

Thanks to DLSS 3.5 and the leading full ray tracing performance of GeForce RTX, the definitive way to experience Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty is on a GeForce RTX graphics card, PC or laptop. 

For even more info about the launch of DLSS 3.5 and Ray Reconstruction in Cyberpunk 2077 and Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty, head on over to our Cyberpunk 2077 DLSS 3.5 launch article.

DLSS 3.5 For Creators: Chaos Vantage Upgrades Today, NVIDIA Omniverse This October
Creative platforms and applications have a wide variety of content that is difficult for traditional denoisers as they require hand-tuning per scene. As a result, when previewing content you get suboptimal image quality. With DLSS 3.5, the AI neural network is able to recognize a wide variety of scenes, producing high quality images during preview, before committing a long time for a final render.

The benefit of Ray Reconstruction is particularly noticeable while navigating the viewport, as rendering during camera movement is notoriously difficult. But Ray Reconstruction enables sharper images with significantly reduced noise while panning around a scene, improving the real-time editing experience and allowing creators to share their work with clients and collaborators.

Chaos Vantage is a popular 3D visualization tool enabling creators to explore large scenes in a fully ray-traced environment. Vantage, which is already accelerated on RTX GPUs with NVIDIA’s OptiX denoiser and NVIDIA DLSS Super Resolution, adds support for Ray Reconstruction to provide further enhancements to image quality, providing a massive boost for creators navigating complex scenes.


Additionally, NVIDIA Omniverse USD Composer, a fully customizable app for OpenUSD world-building that allows users to assemble, light, simulate, and render large scale scenes, will be upgrading to DLSS 3.5 in October.

The First Descendant Open Beta Is Ongoing, Featuring DLSS 3
Nexon Games’ The First Descendant is a free, third-person cooperative action-RPG shooter powered by Unreal Engine 5. Experience the fun of strategic boss fights through 4-player co-op, using an extensive range of unique characters, with exciting gunplay, and looting. Battle through the engrossing story, and tackle World Missions against huge bosses.


 
From now through September 25th, gamers can participate in a First Descendant Crossplay Open Beta, featuring 13 characters, nine giant boss raids, and tons of other content. If you’re playing on PC with a GeForce RTX GPU, you can activate NVIDIA DLSS 3, multiplying performance for GeForce RTX 40 Series gamers, and accelerating frame rates for all other GeForce RTX users via DLSS 2. 



 
Warhaven Available Now With DLSS 3
Enter battle in NEXON Korea’s Warhaven, a visceral 16 vs. 16 third-person medieval-fantasy combat action game created by the minds behind Durango: Wild Lands and Vindictus. Choose among a diverse roster of melee-weapon and magic-based combatants to storm battlegrounds as you see fit. Transform into powerful heroes called Immortals to wield supernatural skill sets, and experience team-based sword-and-magic gameplay like never before.


 
In Warhaven, performance can be accelerated to even greater heights with NVIDIA DLSS 3, and system latency can be reduced with NVIDIA Reflex. At 4K, with ray-traced global illumination and max settings enabled, performance multiplies by 3X on average thanks to DLSS 3:



 
Witchfire Enters Early Access With Support For DLSS 3 & Reflex
The Astronauts’ Witchfire is a dark fantasy first-person shooter from the creative leads behind Painkiller, Bulletstorm, and The Vanishing of Ethan Carter. Desperate for a chance to triumph in the deadly war against witches, the Church calls on forbidden pagan magic to turn willing sinners into immortal witch hunters called preyers. Armed with powerful spells and fearsome firearms conjured by the best Vatican sorcerers, your mission is to find the infamous witch of the Black Sea, destroy the phantom army that protects her, and retrieve a mysterious artifact that can finally turn the tide of war.


 
Like The Astronauts’ previous title, The Vanishing of Ethan Carter, Witchfire uses photogrammetry technology to achieve stunning visuals in its grim, immersive dark fantasy world. On GeForce RTX PCs and laptops those visuals will be accelerated by NVIDIA DLSS 3, and system latency will be reduced by NVIDIA Reflex, making gameplay even more responsive.

At 4K, our testing saw performance multiply by 2.3X on average with max settings enabled:

Lies of P Available Now With DLSS 2
Inspired by the familiar story of Pinocchio, Lies of P is an action Souls-like game set in the dark, Belle Époque-inspired city of Krat. Once a beautiful city, Krat has become a living nightmare as deadly puppets run amok and a plague sweeps the land. Play as P, a puppet who must fight his way through the city on his unrelenting journey to find Geppetto and finally become human. Lies of P presents an elegant world filled with tension, deep combat and character customization systems, and a gripping story with interesting narrative choices where the more lies told, the more human P becomes.


 
Lies of P is available now with support for DLSS 2, giving GeForce RTX gamers significantly faster performance - in our GeForce RTX 40 Series benchmarks, frame rates increased by an average of 1.9X at 4K with max settings enabled.

Party Animals Available Now With DLSS 2 & Reflex
Battle with your friends as puppies, kittens and other cuddly creatures in Party Animals, developed by Recreate Games. Engage in paw-to-paw combat with your friends online. Interact with the world using a realistic physics engine and take advantage of interactive elements in each unique level to emerge victorious in every brawl.

In Party Animals, GeForce RTX gamers can boost performance with DLSS 2 and reduce system latency with NVIDIA Reflex, giving them a competitive edge over critters with less responsive systems.


 
In our testing, 4K performance increased by 1.7X on average with max settings enabled, enabling all GeForce RTX gamers to crush the competition at ludicrously fast and fluid frame rates:

Also, stream the game on nearly any device with GeForce NOW. Upgrade to an Ultimate membership to play with GeForce RTX 4080-class performance, streaming from the cloud.

Check Back Next Week For Even More RTX Games
Five years ago we started a revolutionary journey: to redefine graphics with neural rendering and artificial intelligence. DLSS has come a long way, and is now accelerating performance in over 340 released games and apps. And DLSS 3.5 with Ray Reconstruction will use the power of AI to make games and apps even more beautiful and immersive, starting with Cyberpunk 2077, Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty, and Chaos Vantage.

Return to GeForce.com each week to learn about the latest, greatest and most anticipated games launching with DLSS. 