The First Descendant Launching With NVIDIA DLSS 3
By Andrew Burnes on August 15, 2023 | Featured StoriesGeForce RTX GPUsNVIDIA DLSSNVIDIA RTX
NVIDIA DLSS 3 is available now in 40 games, and is coming to more games this year. Today, The First Descendant joins that ever-expanding list of upcoming DLSS 3 games, ensuring GeForce RTX gamers receive the definitive experience the second it launches.

This week, Gord and The Texas Chain Saw Massacre launch with DLSS 2, accelerating frame rates for all GeForce RTX gamers, and Achilles: Legends Untold is available now.

For all the details, read on, and be sure to check back next week for some big announcements.

The First Descendant Will Launch With DLSS 3
Nexon Games’ The First Descendant is a free, third-person cooperative action-RPG shooter powered by Unreal Engine 5. Experience the fun of strategic boss fights through 4-player co-op, using an extensive range of unique characters, with exciting gunplay, and looting. Battle through the engrossing story, and tackle World Missions against huge bosses.

At launch, The First Descendant will feature NVIDIA DLSS 3, multiplying performance for GeForce RTX 40 Series gamers, and accelerating frame rates for all other GeForce RTX players via DLSS 2. 

 
Need for Speed Unbound - Volume 4 Available August 16
Need for Speed Unbound, the latest edition in the Need for Speed franchise from Electronic Arts and Criterion Games, puts players in the driver’s seat of their own street racing fantasy as they outsmart cops and prove they have what it takes to win The Grand, Lakeshore’s ultimate street racing challenge. Since its release, Need for Speed Unbound has supported NVIDIA DLSS 3, giving GeForce RTX gamers the fastest possible frame rates.

The game’s newest update, Volume 4, will be available August 16, bringing with it brand new Gauntlet Playlists, Boosted events, newly unlocked Linkup areas, and a host of new Speed Pass content and challenges.


 
Achilles: Legends Untold Available Now With DLSS 2
Dark Point Games’ Achilles: Legends Untold is more than just an action RPG. Featuring a novel blend of a complex combat system and the isometric view, it offers an entirely new experience, testing your ability to observe, strategize, and improve. Keep track of your endurance level, learn your opponents' behavior, and create your own fighting style using the expansive skill tree.


 
In this Early Access game, GeForce RTX gamers will discover support for NVIDIA DLSS 2, accelerating frame rates for an even better experience.

Gord Goes Live August 17th With DLSS 2
Covenant.dev and Team 17's Gord is a single-player adventure-strategy game. To survive, you must build, but to prevail, you must conquer the darkness beyond the gates. Lead the people of the Tribe of the Dawn as they venture deep into forbidden lands. Complete quests that shape your settlements , impact their wellbeing, and decide the fate of their community. Ensure the survival of your populace in a grim fantasy world inspired by Slavic folklore.


 
When this unique survival city-builder launches on August 17th, GeForce RTX will enjoy the fastest frame rates possible thanks to the day-one inclusion of DLSS 2.

The Texas Chain Saw Massacre Available With DLSS 2 On August 18th
Take on the role of one of the notorious Slaughter family, or their victims, in Sumo Digital and Gun Interactive’s The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, a third-person asymmetrical horror experience based on the groundbreaking and iconic 1974 horror film.


 
Available August 18th, The Texas Chain Saw Massacre will ship with support for DLSS 2, ensuring your deaths aren’t the result of low frame rates, even when playing at the highest detail levels and resolutions.

Check Back Next Week For Some Big Announcements!
Each week there are even more DLSS integrations arriving for an array of games. Check back next week for a rundown of the next DLSS and RTX games, and some exciting announcements. For a complete list of over 300 DLSS-enhanced games and apps, head here.