Overwatch 2: Invasion Ultimate GeForce RTX 40 Series Bundle Now Available
By Andrew Burnes on August 11, 2023 | Featured StoriesBundlesGeForce RTX GPUsNVIDIA Reflex
Overwatch 2 is Blizzard’s always-on and ever-evolving free-to-play, team-based action game that’s set in an optimistic future, where every match is the ultimate 5v5 battlefield brawl. To unlock the ultimate graphics experience in each battle, upgrade to a GeForce RTX 40 Series graphics card, desktop PC, or laptop for class-leading performance, and unbeatable responsiveness courtesy of NVIDIA Reflex.

The invasion has begun in Overwatch 2’s biggest season to date! Fight back in three co-op Player vs. Enemy Story Missions, play PvP as a new Support hero, and tier up the new Invasion Battle Pass to unlock new skins and cosmetics. And you can get the GeForce Overwatch 2 Invasion Ultimate Bundle with the purchase of select GeForce RTX 40 Series products at participating stores, starting today.


 
With your purchase in hand, you’ll unlock:

OW2 Invasion Story Missions
Vigilante Sojourn Legendary Skin (*Earned)
Sojourn Hero Unlock (*Earned)
Premium Battle Pass
20 Battle Pass Tier Skips
The C-455 Sharpshooter Cassidy Legendary Skin 
The K-2000 Blademaster Kiriko Legendary Skin
3,000 Overwatch Coins
*Earned by completing Story Missions

To enhance your Overwatch 2 experience, purchase one of the following, eligible products at participating stores, and follow the supplied instructions to redeem your Invasion Ultimate Bundle code on Battle.net. Before purchase, please ensure the graphics card, PC or laptop is participating in the bundle promotion by checking the product page; redemption codes for non-participating products cannot be provided.

Using one of our participating GeForce RTX 40 Series products, your shots and movements will occur almost instantaneously in Overwatch 2 thanks to input latency that’s as low as 9 milliseconds!

This blink and you’ll miss it performance comes courtesy of NVIDIA Reflex, which reduces system latency by up to 60% in Overwatch 2, and the raw power of GeForce RTX 40 Series GPUs, which can run at over 360 FPS at 1440p:

You can also enjoy excellent performance and super low input latency on powerful, thin and light GeForce RTX 40 Series laptops:

Learn more about Reflex and high frame rate competitive gaming in previous Reflex articles, and get plenty of additional detail on the NVIDIA Reflex homepage.

You’ll find GPUs, desktop PCs and laptops participating in the Invasion Ultimate Bundle at numerous system builders and retailers worldwide. Head to the Overwatch 2: Invasion Ultimate Bundle homepage to see the complete list of participating partners in your country.

Once you’ve bought any qualifying product, you’ll receive email instructions on how to redeem your bundle, and just a few clicks later you’ll add all of the Overwatch 2 goodies to your Battle.net account.